_pages/applied.md, before:

---
title: "Applied Research"
permalink: /applied-research/
layout: single
author_profile: true
---

## Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT)
- Sudesh S, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Friedman DJ, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT. *Cardiac resynchronization therapy in ischemic versus nonischemic cardiomyopathy: patient-level meta-analysis of 7 randomized clinical trials.* Heart Failure. 2024;12(11):1915–24.
- Shivakumar N, Friedman DJ, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JGF, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Young J, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders SD, Al-Khatib SM. *Outcomes of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy by New York Heart Association Class: A Patient-Level Meta-Analysis.* J Am Heart Assoc. 2024;13(15):e031785. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/JAHA.123.031785)
- Friedman DJ, Olivas-Martinez A, Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS. *Relationship between sex, body size, and cardiac resynchronization therapy benefit: A patient-level meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.* Heart Rhythm. 2024;21(6):845–54. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hrthm.2024.01.058)
- Fudim M, Dalgaard F, Friedman DJ, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Ali-Ahmed F, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Al-Khatib SM, Sanders GD. *Comorbidities and clinical response to cardiac resynchronization therapy: patient-level meta-analysis from eight clinical trials.* Eur J Heart Fail. 2024;1039–46. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1002/ejhf.3029)
- Zeitler EP, Dalgaard F, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Friedman DJ, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Olivas-Martinez A. *Benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy among older patients: A patient-level meta-analysis.* Am Heart J. 2024;267:81–90. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ahj.2023.11.002)
- Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Al-Khatib SM, Friedman DJ, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Young J, Ali-Ahmed F, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders GD. *Cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with a prior history of atrial fibrillation: Insights from four major clinical trials.* J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2023;34(9):1914–24. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/jce.16022)
- Friedman DJ, Al-Khatib SM, Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JGF, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Ali-Ahmed F, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders GD. *Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy Improves Outcomes in Patients With Intraventricular Conduction Delay But Not Right Bundle Branch Block: A Patient-Level Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.* Circulation. 2023;147(10):812–823. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.122.062124)

## COVID-19 Research in Mexico
- Hedlin H, Tobback E, Lee J, Wang Y, Dragoni I, Anthony DC, Dhaliwal K, Norrie J, Halford S, Gotes J, Moctezuma M, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Individual Patient Data Meta-Analysis evaluating Camostat Mesilate to Treat COVID-19 in Community Settings.* medRxiv. 2024.
- Azamar-Llamas A, Arenas-Martinez JS, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Impact of COVID-19 vaccination on liver transplant recipients. Experience in a reference center in Mexico.* PLoS One. 2024;19(3):e0301198. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0301198)
- Corona-Rodarte E, Olivas-Martinez A, Solis-Pompa R, Cano-Aguilar LE, Asz-Sigall D, Ferrusco-Ontiveros MD, Soto-Ortiz JA, Burgos-Mora L. *Delay in the diagnosis and management of suspicious malignant skin lesions during the COVID-19 pandemic in a reference centre in Mexico.* JEADV. 2023. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/jdv.19109)
- Gasca NC, Reyes-Garza J, Lozano-Esparza S, Orozco-del Pino P, Olivas-Martinez A, Ulloa-Pérez E, Garbuno-Inigo A, Arroyo J. *Effect of Mexico’s vaccination program on Covid-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths among older adults in Mexico City.* Salud Publica Mex. 2022;64(4):424–428. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.21149/13402)
- Jimenez JV, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Outcomes in temporary ICUs versus conventional ICUs: An observational cohort of mechanically ventilated patients with COVID-19–induced acute respiratory distress dyndrome.* Crit Care Explor. 2022;4(4):e0668. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/CCE.0000000000000668)
- Servin-Rojas M, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the clinical training of last year medical students in Mexico: a cross-sectional nationwide study.* BMC Med Educ. 2022;22:24. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12909-021-03085-w)
- Servin-Rojas M, Olivas-Martinez A, Ramirez-Del Val F, Torres-Gomez A, Navarro-Vargas L, García-Juárez I. *Transplant trends in Mexico during the COVID-19 pandemic: Disparities within healthcare sectors.* Am J Transplant. 2021;21(12):4052–60. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.16801)
- Lozano-Cruz OA, Jiménez JV, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Adverse effects associated with the use of antimalarials during the COVID-19 pandemic in a tertiary care center in Mexico City.* Front Pharmacol. 2021;12:668678. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2021.668678)
- Moctezuma-Velázquez O, Miranda-Zazueta G, Ortiz-Brizuela E, González-Lara MF, Tamez-Torres KM, Román-Montes CM, Díaz-Mejía BA, Pérez-García E, Villanueva-Reza M, Tovar-Méndez VH, Medrano-Borromeo C, Martínez-Valenzuela A, Jandete-Medina MA, Martínez-Guerra BA, Uscanga-Domínguez L, Sifuentes-Osornio J, Ponce-de-León A, Olivas-Martinez A, Moctezuma-Velázquez C. *Low thoracic skeletal muscle area is not associated with negative outcomes in patients with COVID-19.* Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2021;100(5):413–418. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/PHM.0000000000001716)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Cárdenas-Fragoso JL, Jiménez JV, et al. *In-hospital mortality from severe COVID-19 in a tertiary care center in Mexico City; causes of death, risk factors and the impact of hospital saturation.* PLoS One. 2021;16(2):e0245772. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0245772)
- Ortiz-Brizuela E, Villanueva-Reza M, González-Lara MF, Tamez-Torres KM, Román-Montes C, Díaz-Mejía B, Pérez-García E, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Clinical and epidemiological characteristics of patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in a tertiary care center in Mexico City: a prospective cohort study.* Rev Invest Clin. 2020;72(3):165–177. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.20000211)

## Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases
- Ruiz-Manríquez J, Feria-Agudelo SM, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Granulomatous Liver Disease in a Referral Center in Mexico City.* Annals of Hepatology. 2025;102108.
- Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, Mier y Teran-Ellis S, et al. *Complications in Patients with Surgically Altered Gastrointestinal Anatomy Undergoing ERCP: 15-Year Experience at a Tertiary Care Center in Latin America.* Dig Dis Sci. 2024. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10620-024-08516-4)
- Fernández-Ramírez A, Olivas-Martinez A, Ruiz-Manriquez J, et al. *Posttransplantation diabetes mellitus after liver transplant and the impact of family history of diabetes in a Mexican cohort.* Rev Gastroenterol Mex (Eng Ed). 2024;89(2):249–57. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rgmxen.2023.06.002)
- Rodriguez-Rodriguez S, Olivas-Martinez A, Delgado-de la Mora J, Martinez-Benitez B, Garcia-Juarez I, Demichelis-Gomez R. *Is iron overload associated with worse outcomes in patients with chronic liver disease undergoing liver transplantation?* Rev Invest Clin. 2024;76(1):18–28. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.23000246)
- Jiménez-Gutiérrez JM, Alonso-Lárraga JO, Hernández-Guerrero AI, Lino-Silva LS, Olivas-Martinez A. *Efficacy and safety of self-expanding metal stents in patients with inoperable esophageal cancer: a real-life study.* Ther Adv Gastrointest Endosc. 2023;16. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/26317745231200975)
- Catalán R, Jiménez-Ceja JV, Rincón-Pedrero R, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *Factors Associated with Development of Acute Kidney Injury After Liver Transplantation.* Rev Invest Clin. 2022;74(2):906. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/ric.21000496)
- Gonzalez-Chagolla A, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Cirrhosis etiology trends in developing countries: Transition from infectious to metabolic conditions.* Lancet Reg Health Am. 2022;7:100151. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lana.2021.100151)
- Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, Chávez-García LC, et al. *Prevalence of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease in Mexico and development of a screening tool: the MAFLD-S score.* Gastro Hep Advances. 2022;1(3):352–358. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gastha.2021.12.011)
- Jiménez-Gutiérrez JM, García-Juárez I, Olivas-Martinez A, Ruiz I. *One-year outcome of patients with cirrhosis who developed spontaneous bacterial empyema: A cohort study.* J Dig Dis. 2021;22(12):714–20. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/1751-2980.13066)
- Kauffman-Ortega E, Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Direct-Acting Antivirals in the Treatment of Hepatitis C Virus Recurrence after Liver Transplantation: Real-life Experience in a Mexican Cohort.* Arch Med Res. 2021;52(7):713–718. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arcmed.2021.04.003)

## Oncology and Hematologic Diseases
- Vaca-Cartagena BF, Ferrigno Guajardo AS, Azim HA, Rotolo F, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Describing quality of life trajectories in young Hispanic women with breast cancer: 5-year results from a large prospective cohort.* Breast. 2025;79:103866. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.breast.2024.103866)
- Corona-Rodarte E, Olivas-Martinez A, Remolina-Bonilla YA, Domínguez-Cherit JG, Lam ET, Bourlon MT. *Do we need skin toxicity? Association of immune checkpoint inhibitor and tyrosine kinase inhibitor-related cutaneous adverse events with outcomes in metastatic renal cell carcinoma.* Int J Dermatol. 2021;60(10):1242–1247. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/ijd.15583)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Corona-Rodarte E, Nuñez-Zuno A, et al. *Causes of erythrocytosis and its impact as a risk factor for thrombosis according to etiology: experience in a referral center in Mexico City.* Blood Res. 2021;56(3):166–174. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5045/br.2021.2021111)
- Rajme-Lopez S, Crabtree-Ramírez B, Acosta-Medina A, Olivas-Martínez A, Bourlon C. *HIV-positive patients presenting with peripheral blood cytopenias: Is bone marrow assessment a priority?* Hematol Transfus Cell Ther. 2022;44(4):542–8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.htct.2021.02.008)
- Aguado-Vázquez T, Olivas-Martínez A, Cancino-Ramos U, et al. *18f-Fluorodeoxyglucose PET versus Bone Marrow Biopsy for the Evaluation of Bone Marrow Infiltration in Newly Diagnosed Lymphoma Patients.* Rev Invest Clin. 2021;73(2):79–86. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.20000239)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Barrales-Benítez O, Montante-Montes-de-Oca D, et al. *Epidemiology of polycythemia vera in a Mexican population.* Magazine of European Medical Oncology. 2020;13:111–7. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12254-019-00537-4)

## Additional Applied Research
- Braghieri L, Olivas-Martinez A, Silvestri EG, Karatasakis A, Li S, Mahr C, Bravo C. *The Impact of the 2018 Allocation System Change on Patients Bridged With Durable Left Ventricular Assist Device: An Updated UNOS Registry Analysis.* ASAIO J. 2024;70(5):456–9. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/MAT.0000000000002115)
- Martínez-Gamboa A, Niembro-Ortega MD, Torres-González P, Santiago-Cruz J, Velázquez-Zavala NG, Rangel-Cordero A, Crabtree-Ramírez B, Gamboa-Domínguez A, Reyes-Gutiérrez E, Reyes-Terán G, Lozano-Fernandez VH, Ahumada-Topete VH, Martínez-Ayala P, Manríquez-Reyes M, Ramírez-Hinojosa JP, Rodríguez-Zulueta P, Hernández-León C, Ruíz-Quiñones J, Rivera-Martínez NE, Chaparro-Sánchez A, Andrade-Villanueva J, González-Hernández LA, Cruz-Martínez S, Flores-Barrientos O, Gaytán-Martínez JE, Magaña-Aquino M, Cervantes-Sánchez A, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *Diagnostic accuracy of antigen detection in urine and molecular assays testing in different clinical samples for the diagnosis of progressive disseminated histoplasmosis in patients living with HIV/AIDS: A prospective multicenter study in Mexico.* PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021;15(3):e0009215. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0009215)
- Ortiz-Brizuela E, Caro-Vega Y, Bobadilla-del-Valle M, Leal-Vega F, Criollo-Mora E, López-Luis BA, Esteban-Kenel V, Torres-Ventimilla E, Galindo-Fraga A, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *The Influence of Hospital Antimicrobial Use on Carbapenem Non-Susceptible Enterobacterales Incidence Rates According to Their Mechanism of Resistance: A Time-Series Analysis.* J Hosp Infect. 2020;105(4):757–65. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhin.2020.06.019)
- Martínez-Rueda AJ, Olivas-Martínez A, Vega-Vega O, Fonseca-Correa JI, Correa-Rotter R. *New 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association High Blood Pressure Guideline Healthcare Impact in Mexico and Other Developing Countries.* Hypertension. 2019;73(1):142–7. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.118.11827)
- Vidal-Mayo JJ, Olivas-Martínez A, Pérez-Díaz I, et al. *Calculated Versus Measured Urine Osmolarity: Accuracy of Estimated Urine Density.* Rev Invest Clin. 2018;70(6):310–8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.18002598)

## Global Burden of Disease Collaborations
- GBD 2021 Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial resistance 1990–2021: a systematic analysis with forecasts to 2050.* Lancet. 404(10459):1199–1226. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01867-1)
- GBD 2021 Lower Respiratory Infections and AMR Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global, regional, and national incidence and mortality burden of non-COVID-19 lower respiratory infections and aetiologies, 1990–2021.* Lancet Infect Dis. 2024 Apr 15:S1473-3099(24)00176-2. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(24)00176-2)
- GBD 2021 Demographics Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global age-sex-specific mortality, life expectancy, and population estimates in 204 countries and territories and 811 subnational locations, 1950–2021, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.* Lancet. 2024;S0140-6736(24)00476-8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(24)00476-8)
- Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *The burden of antimicrobial resistance in the Americas in 2019: a cross-country systematic analysis.* Lancet Reg Health–Americas. 2023;25:100561. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lana.2023.100561)
- GBD Fatty Liver Disease SDG Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *The global fatty liver disease Sustainable Development Goal country score for 195 countries and territories.* Hepatology. 2023;78(3):911–28. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/HEP.0000000000000361)
- Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial resistance in 2019: a systematic analysis.* Lancet. 2022;399(10325):629–655. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)02724-0)

Commit message:

Change title to 'Applied Work' and add description
Updated the title and added a brief description of applied work.

_pages/applied.md, after:

---
title: "Applied Work"
permalink: /applied-research/
layout: single
author_profile: true
---

Examples of my applied work and analyses.

## Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT)
- Sudesh S, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Friedman DJ, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT. *Cardiac resynchronization therapy in ischemic versus nonischemic cardiomyopathy: patient-level meta-analysis of 7 randomized clinical trials.* Heart Failure. 2024;12(11):1915–24.
- Shivakumar N, Friedman DJ, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JGF, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Young J, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders SD, Al-Khatib SM. *Outcomes of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy by New York Heart Association Class: A Patient-Level Meta-Analysis.* J Am Heart Assoc. 2024;13(15):e031785. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/JAHA.123.031785)
- Friedman DJ, Olivas-Martinez A, Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS. *Relationship between sex, body size, and cardiac resynchronization therapy benefit: A patient-level meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.* Heart Rhythm. 2024;21(6):845–54. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hrthm.2024.01.058)
- Fudim M, Dalgaard F, Friedman DJ, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Ali-Ahmed F, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Al-Khatib SM, Sanders GD. *Comorbidities and clinical response to cardiac resynchronization therapy: patient-level meta-analysis from eight clinical trials.* Eur J Heart Fail. 2024;1039–46. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1002/ejhf.3029)
- Zeitler EP, Dalgaard F, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Friedman DJ, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Olivas-Martinez A. *Benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy among older patients: A patient-level meta-analysis.* Am Heart J. 2024;267:81–90. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ahj.2023.11.002)
- Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Al-Khatib SM, Friedman DJ, Abraham WT, Cleland JG, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Young J, Ali-Ahmed F, Tang A, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders GD. *Cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with a prior history of atrial fibrillation: Insights from four major clinical trials.* J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2023;34(9):1914–24. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/jce.16022)
- Friedman DJ, Al-Khatib SM, Dalgaard F, Fudim M, Abraham WT, Cleland JGF, Curtis AB, Gold MR, Kutyifa V, Linde C, Tang AS, Ali-Ahmed F, Olivas-Martinez A, Inoue LYT, Sanders GD. *Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy Improves Outcomes in Patients With Intraventricular Conduction Delay But Not Right Bundle Branch Block: A Patient-Level Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.* Circulation. 2023;147(10):812–823. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.122.062124)

## COVID-19 Research in Mexico
- Hedlin H, Tobback E, Lee J, Wang Y, Dragoni I, Anthony DC, Dhaliwal K, Norrie J, Halford S, Gotes J, Moctezuma M, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Individual Patient Data Meta-Analysis evaluating Camostat Mesilate to Treat COVID-19 in Community Settings.* medRxiv. 2024.
- Azamar-Llamas A, Arenas-Martinez JS, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Impact of COVID-19 vaccination on liver transplant recipients. Experience in a reference center in Mexico.* PLoS One. 2024;19(3):e0301198. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0301198)
- Corona-Rodarte E, Olivas-Martinez A, Solis-Pompa R, Cano-Aguilar LE, Asz-Sigall D, Ferrusco-Ontiveros MD, Soto-Ortiz JA, Burgos-Mora L. *Delay in the diagnosis and management of suspicious malignant skin lesions during the COVID-19 pandemic in a reference centre in Mexico.* JEADV. 2023. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/jdv.19109)
- Gasca NC, Reyes-Garza J, Lozano-Esparza S, Orozco-del Pino P, Olivas-Martinez A, Ulloa-Pérez E, Garbuno-Inigo A, Arroyo J. *Effect of Mexico’s vaccination program on Covid-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths among older adults in Mexico City.* Salud Publica Mex. 2022;64(4):424–428. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.21149/13402)
- Jimenez JV, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Outcomes in temporary ICUs versus conventional ICUs: An observational cohort of mechanically ventilated patients with COVID-19–induced acute respiratory distress dyndrome.* Crit Care Explor. 2022;4(4):e0668. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/CCE.0000000000000668)
- Servin-Rojas M, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the clinical training of last year medical students in Mexico: a cross-sectional nationwide study.* BMC Med Educ. 2022;22:24. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12909-021-03085-w)
- Servin-Rojas M, Olivas-Martinez A, Ramirez-Del Val F, Torres-Gomez A, Navarro-Vargas L, García-Juárez I. *Transplant trends in Mexico during the COVID-19 pandemic: Disparities within healthcare sectors.* Am J Transplant. 2021;21(12):4052–60. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/ajt.16801)
- Lozano-Cruz OA, Jiménez JV, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Adverse effects associated with the use of antimalarials during the COVID-19 pandemic in a tertiary care center in Mexico City.* Front Pharmacol. 2021;12:668678. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2021.668678)
- Moctezuma-Velázquez O, Miranda-Zazueta G, Ortiz-Brizuela E, González-Lara MF, Tamez-Torres KM, Román-Montes CM, Díaz-Mejía BA, Pérez-García E, Villanueva-Reza M, Tovar-Méndez VH, Medrano-Borromeo C, Martínez-Valenzuela A, Jandete-Medina MA, Martínez-Guerra BA, Uscanga-Domínguez L, Sifuentes-Osornio J, Ponce-de-León A, Olivas-Martinez A, Moctezuma-Velázquez C. *Low thoracic skeletal muscle area is not associated with negative outcomes in patients with COVID-19.* Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2021;100(5):413–418. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/PHM.0000000000001716)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Cárdenas-Fragoso JL, Jiménez JV, et al. *In-hospital mortality from severe COVID-19 in a tertiary care center in Mexico City; causes of death, risk factors and the impact of hospital saturation.* PLoS One. 2021;16(2):e0245772. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0245772)
- Ortiz-Brizuela E, Villanueva-Reza M, González-Lara MF, Tamez-Torres KM, Román-Montes C, Díaz-Mejía B, Pérez-García E, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Clinical and epidemiological characteristics of patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in a tertiary care center in Mexico City: a prospective cohort study.* Rev Invest Clin. 2020;72(3):165–177. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.20000211)

## Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases
- Ruiz-Manríquez J, Feria-Agudelo SM, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Granulomatous Liver Disease in a Referral Center in Mexico City.* Annals of Hepatology. 2025;102108.
- Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, Mier y Teran-Ellis S, et al. *Complications in Patients with Surgically Altered Gastrointestinal Anatomy Undergoing ERCP: 15-Year Experience at a Tertiary Care Center in Latin America.* Dig Dis Sci. 2024. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10620-024-08516-4)
- Fernández-Ramírez A, Olivas-Martinez A, Ruiz-Manriquez J, et al. *Posttransplantation diabetes mellitus after liver transplant and the impact of family history of diabetes in a Mexican cohort.* Rev Gastroenterol Mex (Eng Ed). 2024;89(2):249–57. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rgmxen.2023.06.002)
- Rodriguez-Rodriguez S, Olivas-Martinez A, Delgado-de la Mora J, Martinez-Benitez B, Garcia-Juarez I, Demichelis-Gomez R. *Is iron overload associated with worse outcomes in patients with chronic liver disease undergoing liver transplantation?* Rev Invest Clin. 2024;76(1):18–28. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.23000246)
- Jiménez-Gutiérrez JM, Alonso-Lárraga JO, Hernández-Guerrero AI, Lino-Silva LS, Olivas-Martinez A. *Efficacy and safety of self-expanding metal stents in patients with inoperable esophageal cancer: a real-life study.* Ther Adv Gastrointest Endosc. 2023;16. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/26317745231200975)
- Catalán R, Jiménez-Ceja JV, Rincón-Pedrero R, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *Factors Associated with Development of Acute Kidney Injury After Liver Transplantation.* Rev Invest Clin. 2022;74(2):906. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/ric.21000496)
- Gonzalez-Chagolla A, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Cirrhosis etiology trends in developing countries: Transition from infectious to metabolic conditions.* Lancet Reg Health Am. 2022;7:100151. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lana.2021.100151)
- Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, Chávez-García LC, et al. *Prevalence of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease in Mexico and development of a screening tool: the MAFLD-S score.* Gastro Hep Advances. 2022;1(3):352–358. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gastha.2021.12.011)
- Jiménez-Gutiérrez JM, García-Juárez I, Olivas-Martinez A, Ruiz I. *One-year outcome of patients with cirrhosis who developed spontaneous bacterial empyema: A cohort study.* J Dig Dis. 2021;22(12):714–20. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/1751-2980.13066)
- Kauffman-Ortega E, Ruiz-Manriquez J, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Direct-Acting Antivirals in the Treatment of Hepatitis C Virus Recurrence after Liver Transplantation: Real-life Experience in a Mexican Cohort.* Arch Med Res. 2021;52(7):713–718. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arcmed.2021.04.003)

## Oncology and Hematologic Diseases
- Vaca-Cartagena BF, Ferrigno Guajardo AS, Azim HA, Rotolo F, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Describing quality of life trajectories in young Hispanic women with breast cancer: 5-year results from a large prospective cohort.* Breast. 2025;79:103866. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.breast.2024.103866)
- Corona-Rodarte E, Olivas-Martinez A, Remolina-Bonilla YA, Domínguez-Cherit JG, Lam ET, Bourlon MT. *Do we need skin toxicity? Association of immune checkpoint inhibitor and tyrosine kinase inhibitor-related cutaneous adverse events with outcomes in metastatic renal cell carcinoma.* Int J Dermatol. 2021;60(10):1242–1247. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1111/ijd.15583)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Corona-Rodarte E, Nuñez-Zuno A, et al. *Causes of erythrocytosis and its impact as a risk factor for thrombosis according to etiology: experience in a referral center in Mexico City.* Blood Res. 2021;56(3):166–174. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5045/br.2021.2021111)
- Rajme-Lopez S, Crabtree-Ramírez B, Acosta-Medina A, Olivas-Martínez A, Bourlon C. *HIV-positive patients presenting with peripheral blood cytopenias: Is bone marrow assessment a priority?* Hematol Transfus Cell Ther. 2022;44(4):542–8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.htct.2021.02.008)
- Aguado-Vázquez T, Olivas-Martínez A, Cancino-Ramos U, et al. *18f-Fluorodeoxyglucose PET versus Bone Marrow Biopsy for the Evaluation of Bone Marrow Infiltration in Newly Diagnosed Lymphoma Patients.* Rev Invest Clin. 2021;73(2):79–86. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.20000239)
- Olivas-Martinez A, Barrales-Benítez O, Montante-Montes-de-Oca D, et al. *Epidemiology of polycythemia vera in a Mexican population.* Magazine of European Medical Oncology. 2020;13:111–7. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12254-019-00537-4)

## Additional Applied Research
- Braghieri L, Olivas-Martinez A, Silvestri EG, Karatasakis A, Li S, Mahr C, Bravo C. *The Impact of the 2018 Allocation System Change on Patients Bridged With Durable Left Ventricular Assist Device: An Updated UNOS Registry Analysis.* ASAIO J. 2024;70(5):456–9. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/MAT.0000000000002115)
- Martínez-Gamboa A, Niembro-Ortega MD, Torres-González P, Santiago-Cruz J, Velázquez-Zavala NG, Rangel-Cordero A, Crabtree-Ramírez B, Gamboa-Domínguez A, Reyes-Gutiérrez E, Reyes-Terán G, Lozano-Fernandez VH, Ahumada-Topete VH, Martínez-Ayala P, Manríquez-Reyes M, Ramírez-Hinojosa JP, Rodríguez-Zulueta P, Hernández-León C, Ruíz-Quiñones J, Rivera-Martínez NE, Chaparro-Sánchez A, Andrade-Villanueva J, González-Hernández LA, Cruz-Martínez S, Flores-Barrientos O, Gaytán-Martínez JE, Magaña-Aquino M, Cervantes-Sánchez A, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *Diagnostic accuracy of antigen detection in urine and molecular assays testing in different clinical samples for the diagnosis of progressive disseminated histoplasmosis in patients living with HIV/AIDS: A prospective multicenter study in Mexico.* PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021;15(3):e0009215. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0009215)
- Ortiz-Brizuela E, Caro-Vega Y, Bobadilla-del-Valle M, Leal-Vega F, Criollo-Mora E, López-Luis BA, Esteban-Kenel V, Torres-Ventimilla E, Galindo-Fraga A, Olivas-Martínez A, et al. *The Influence of Hospital Antimicrobial Use on Carbapenem Non-Susceptible Enterobacterales Incidence Rates According to Their Mechanism of Resistance: A Time-Series Analysis.* J Hosp Infect. 2020;105(4):757–65. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhin.2020.06.019)
- Martínez-Rueda AJ, Olivas-Martínez A, Vega-Vega O, Fonseca-Correa JI, Correa-Rotter R. *New 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association High Blood Pressure Guideline Healthcare Impact in Mexico and Other Developing Countries.* Hypertension. 2019;73(1):142–7. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.118.11827)
- Vidal-Mayo JJ, Olivas-Martínez A, Pérez-Díaz I, et al. *Calculated Versus Measured Urine Osmolarity: Accuracy of Estimated Urine Density.* Rev Invest Clin. 2018;70(6):310–8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.24875/RIC.18002598)

## Global Burden of Disease Collaborations
- GBD 2021 Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial resistance 1990–2021: a systematic analysis with forecasts to 2050.* Lancet. 404(10459):1199–1226. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01867-1)
- GBD 2021 Lower Respiratory Infections and AMR Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global, regional, and national incidence and mortality burden of non-COVID-19 lower respiratory infections and aetiologies, 1990–2021.* Lancet Infect Dis. 2024 Apr 15:S1473-3099(24)00176-2. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(24)00176-2)
- GBD 2021 Demographics Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global age-sex-specific mortality, life expectancy, and population estimates in 204 countries and territories and 811 subnational locations, 1950–2021, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.* Lancet. 2024;S0140-6736(24)00476-8. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(24)00476-8)
- Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *The burden of antimicrobial resistance in the Americas in 2019: a cross-country systematic analysis.* Lancet Reg Health–Americas. 2023;25:100561. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lana.2023.100561)
- GBD Fatty Liver Disease SDG Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *The global fatty liver disease Sustainable Development Goal country score for 195 countries and territories.* Hepatology. 2023;78(3):911–28. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1097/HEP.0000000000000361)
- Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators, Olivas-Martinez A, et al. *Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial resistance in 2019: a systematic analysis.* Lancet. 2022;399(10325):629–655. [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)02724-0)
