_pages/research.md, before:

---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
layout: single
author_profile: true
---

## Methodological Work
- **Source-Condition Analysis of Kernel Adversarial Estimators** — *arXiv preprint* (2025).  
  *Finite-sample analysis of RKHS-regularized adversarial estimators for ill-posed regression, comparing stability and assumptions with existing methods.*  
  [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.17181)

## Collaborative Projects
- **Test Sensitivity in a Prospective Cancer Screening Program: A Critique of a Common Proxy Measure** — Co-author, *Statistical Methods in Medical Research* (2023).  
  *Analyzed the relationship between empirical and true sensitivity in cancer screening programs, clarifying conditions under which proxy measures can misrepresent diagnostic performance.*  
  [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/09622802221142529)
- **Sensitivity Measures in Studies of Cancer Early Detection Biomarkers** — Co-author, *Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention* (2025).  
  *Investigated how sensitivity estimates from different phases of biomarker development relate to true preclinical sensitivity, highlighting biases that can arise across study designs and screening intervals.*  
  [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-24-1849)

Commit message:

Adding paper on framework for active-controlled trials with non-inferiority
Added a new framework for active-controlled trials with non-inferiority objectives, including a detailed explanation and a link to the arXiv preprint.

_pages/research.md, after:

---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
layout: single
author_profile: true
---

## Methodological Work
- **Source-Condition Analysis of Kernel Adversarial Estimators** — *arXiv preprint* (2025).  
  *Finite-sample analysis of RKHS-regularized adversarial estimators for ill-posed regression, comparing stability and assumptions with existing methods.*  
  [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.17181)
- **A General Framework for Designing and Evaluating Active-Controlled Trials with Non-Inferiority Objectives** — *arXiv preprint* (2025).  
  *Framework integrating existing analytical methods and success criteria, enabling systematic comparison of type I error, power, and robustness, and providing a toolkit for rigorous non-inferiority trial design and method selection.*  
  [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.22071)

## Collaborative Projects
- **Test Sensitivity in a Prospective Cancer Screening Program: A Critique of a Common Proxy Measure** — Co-author, *Statistical Methods in Medical Research* (2023).  
  *Analyzed the relationship between empirical and true sensitivity in cancer screening programs, clarifying conditions under which proxy measures can misrepresent diagnostic performance.*  
  [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/09622802221142529)
- **Sensitivity Measures in Studies of Cancer Early Detection Biomarkers** — Co-author, *Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention* (2025).  
  *Investigated how sensitivity estimates from different phases of biomarker development relate to true preclinical sensitivity, highlighting biases that can arise across study designs and screening intervals.*  
  [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-24-1849)
